# Source data
Source data for the project - https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

# About the script
The run_analysis.R script performs data preparation and then follows the 5 predescribed steps in the course project step by step.

# Step by step
1) Download the dataset mentioned above.

2) Assign each data file to variables:
* features <- features.txt: Contains the selected features from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ.
* activities <- activity_labels.txt: Lists the activities performed during the corresponding measurements and their associated codes (labels).
* subject_test <- test/subject_test.txt: Contains test data from 9 out of the 30 volunteer test subjects being observed.
* x_test <- test/X_test.txt: Contains recorded feature test data.
* y_test <- test/y_test.txt: Contains the activity code labels for the test data.
* subject_train <- train/subject_train.txt: Contains train data from 21 out of the 30 volunteer subjects being observed.
* x_train <- train/X_train.txt: Contains recorded feature train data.
* y_train <- train/y_train.txt: Contains the activity code labels for the train data.

3) Merge  data sets to create one  
* X is generated by combining x_train and x_test using the rbind() function.
* Y is generated by combining y_train and y_test using the rbind() function.
* subject is generated by combining subject_train and subject_test using the rbind() function.
* merged_data is created by concatenating Subject, Y, and X using the cbind() function.

4) Extract only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. Tidy data is created by selecting only the columns from merged_data that include subject, code, and the measurements for the mean and standard deviation.

5) Use descriptive activity names to label the activities in the data set. The numeric values in the code column of Tidy data are replaced with the corresponding activity names from the second column of the activities data frame.

6) Label the data set with descriptive variable names:
* code column in TidyData renamed into activities
* Acc in column’s name replaced with Accelerometer
* Gyro in column’s name replaced with Gyroscope
* BodyBody in column’s name replaced with Body
* Mag in column’s name replaced with Magnitude
* start with character f in column’s name replaced with Frequency
* start with character t in column’s name replaced with Time

7) Use the data set from step (4), create a second, independent data set that contains the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. Finaldata is generated by summarizing TidyData, calculating the mean of each variable for each activity and each subject after grouping by subject and activity. Export finaldata to the finaltidydata.txt file.
        


